# Code 301 Class 05 - Putting it All Together

## [React Docs - Thinking in React](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

### 1. What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

The single responsibility principle is the idea that a piece of code (like a function, object, or component) should only do one thing. For instance, you shouldn't have a component that tries to receive user input, filter data based on that input, and display elements based on that data; those should all be separate components.

### 2. What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

A static version doesn't have any interactivity. It doesn't use `state`, because without interaction, no data will change.

### 3. Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

To add interactivity to a static application, you need to add state.

### 4. What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

1. Is the data passed in via props from a parent?
2. Does the data change over time?
3. Can it be computed based on other state or props?

If the answer to any of these is yes, it's probably not state.

### 5. How can you identify where state needs to live?

Find all components that use the state - the state should live in a common parent component. If there's not a good component for it, create one and add it in the hierarchy above all the components that need it.

## [Higher-Order Functions](https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK)

### 1. What is a “higher-order function”?

Higher-order functions operate on other functions.

### 2. Explore the `greaterThan` function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?

Line 2 of the function creates a function that takes in `m` as an argument and compares it to `n`, which was passed in as an argument of the `greaterThan` function. If `m` is greater than `n`, the function returns `true`.

### 3. Explain how either `map` or `reduce` operates, with regards to higher-order functions

`map` is a higher-order function because it takes in another function and applies it to each element to create a new array.

## Things I'd like to know more about

I'd like to know more about how to pass state between components that are farther apart than direct parent/child.
